This directory contains my teaching statement, a short overview on my teaching
philosophy and how I strive to embody this philosophy in my day-to-day teaching
activities. The statement is available PDF form, but I have also made it
available in Markdown form below.

# Teaching Statement

During my undergraduate career I was very fortunate to experience many classes
with truly amazing professors who exhibited many highly effective teaching
strategies. Learning under these strategies greatly shaped my own teaching, and
taught me an important lesson: at its core, effective teaching is about
relationships, both with the students and with the material. In particular, it
is the teachers who are caring, adaptive, enthusiastic, and broad who can best
foster deep, meaningful relationships with their students and with their
subjects, and therefore I strive to make these qualities a central part of my
teaching.

First and foremost, successful teachers are caring. Students who know that their
instructor cares about their learning and well-being are often motivated to seek
help and push themselves based on that fact alone. One way I show that I care
about my students is to learn all of their names in the first week of classes.
Because some students look very different from the photos the university has on
file, I bring a camera to the first class meeting and take their pictures. I
then make flashcards and study them every day until I learn their names. When I
address students by name in the second week of classes, many students are
impressed and express their appreciation when I collect feedback. Though it is a
small gesture, I have found it to be highly motivating to students.

I also have the opportunity to demonstrate a caring spirit when I help students
with their questions on the material. For example, this past semester, one of my
students emailed me in tears because he was having great difficulty with the
material. Though I was busy and dealing with an important personal issue at the
time, I sympathized with him and scheduled a meeting with him outside of class
to answer his questions. He was very appreciative, and ended up doing extremely
well in the course. I believe that moments like these have a huge impact on
students' motivation.

Second, successful teachers are adaptive. I have incorporated adaptiveness into
my own teaching by carefully preparing each day's activities for each section of
students. This past semester, I led recitations for a section of about five very
strong students, a section of twenty very inquisitive students, and a section of
about fifteen very quiet students. I approached each of these sections very
differently, exploring alternative problem-solving methods in the first section
while taking many more questions in the second. As I got to know each student
better, I also began to approach each student's questions differently, allowing
me to more effectively handle mixes of the above types of students in a single
section. I believe that such adaptability, while certainly more difficult on the
instructor, providers students with an effective educational environment
tailored to their specific learning styles.

I also adapt my teaching and courses over the long term, carefully collecting
students' feedback both during and at the end of the course. My students'
feedback played a key part in my decision to eliminate recitation quizzes and
replace them with additional practice problems in my recitation sections this
past semester. This feedback affects my courses at a more fundamental level,
fixing inefficiencies that cannot be solved by a quick, improvised change in
teaching. I believe that this long-term adaptiveness is just as important as
short-term adaptiveness, affecting the design of my courses rather than just the
implementation.

Third, successful teachers are enthusiastic. An instructor's enthusiasm can
often be contagious, motivating students to share in the same passion for the
subject material. The excitement with which I approach problems and concepts
motivates me to incorporate jokes and other ``fun'' elements into my teaching,
making my classes more enjoyable for students. For example, in one of my
recitations I decided to take my students outside, where we solved math problems
with chalk on the sidewalk. The students were able to enjoy the sun and see how
their classmates were approaching the same problems, and many of them wrote how
much they appreciated this in their mid-semester teaching evaluations.

Additionally, I try to convey my enthusiasm by leading students to discover the
biggest key ideas in my courses rather than simply teaching them. For example, I
once spent most of a recitation meeting asking students to solve a problem that
they had not been taught to solve. Though they struggled to solve the problem on
their own, this approach allowed them to better understand why the solution
worked. Furthermore, the students that did manage to solve the problem were able
to work on the additional challenge of developing a general method for solving
similar problems. This approach not only allows students to be creative in
solving problems, but also primes them to learn concepts which may be taught in
the near future.

Finally, successful teachers are broad. Though depth in the subject material is
equally important for teachers, I believe that breadth is a key factor in making
the material accessible to students. When I design courses, I try to demonstrate
this harmony of breadth and depth by examining subject material through a
variety of activities and perspectives. In my own field of computer security,
this approach is particularly effective because security vulnerabilities can
occur in both the design and the implementation of systems, allowing students
to see how systems are exploited through both theoretical and hands-on
approaches. For example, my introductory security course has a password-cracking
lab in which students analyze the theoretical weaknesses of various hash
functions and apply these analyses to design fast, efficient password-cracking
algorithms.

In addition, I seek to engage my students with my field in the context of other
academic disciplines. With the increasing ubiquity of computing devices in our
everyday lives, computer security has become more intertwined with other fields,
particularly economics, politics, and psychology. Criminals are compromising
financial systems with greater frequency because of the economic motivations,
and governments are facing great challenges in regulating the use of the
Internet. By analyzing these connections, students can take the lessons they
learn in my courses with them, even if they do not pursue further studies in
security.

Good teaching, of course, has many other attributes, but caring, adaptability,
enthusiasm, and breadth have made the biggest difference in my own teaching and
learning. In my future teaching endeavors, I hope to further refine my teaching
through continual reflection on both my own and others' teaching strategies. In
doing so, I hope to keep providing an effective learning environment for my
students, helping them discover the great insights and wondrous applications of
my field.

